Add "Window to Visual" in "Windowed vs. Visual hosting of WebView2" (#3271)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/windowed-vs-visual-hosting.md

Author: Overall LGTM | Dev. Would accept this going through as is.

author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.service: microsoft-edge
ms.subservice: webview
ms.date: 09/18/2024
---
# Windowed vs. Visual hosting of WebView2

<!-- outline Sep 28, 2024:
=======================================
## Scenarios for selecting the hosting approach
#### Windowed hosting: For displaying content quickly and easily
###### Advantages
###### Disadvantages

#### Window to Visual hosting: Similar experience as Windowed hosting with added benefits and tradeoff
###### Advantages
###### Disadvantages

#### Visual hosting: For more granular control over layout
###### Advantages and disadvantages

=======================================
## Compatibility and constraints
#### Operating systems
#### Rendering WebView2 in framework and non-framework apps    [APIs tabset]

=======================================
## Windowed hosting and Window to Visual hosting
#### Benefits of Windowed hosting
#### Benefits of Window to Visual hosting
#### APIs for Windowed hosting and Window to Visual hosting

> #### Window management                            [APIs tabset]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
###### Window management                            [APIs tabset]
```
can't demote its children / following two sections but can make this change work

Reviewer: demoted API headings to h6, incl in outline

###### Sizing, positioning, and visibility        [APIs tabset]
###### Zooming                                    [APIs tabset]

> #### Rasterization scale                          [APIs tabset] err? same level as surrounding headings, in "Overview of APIs"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
###### Rasterization scale                          [APIs tabset] err? same level as surrounding headings, in "Overview of APIs"
```

Reviewer: demoted api headings to h6, incl in outline

###### Focus and tabbing                          [APIs tabset]
###### Parent window                              [APIs tabset]
###### Keyboard accelerators                      [APIs tabset]
###### Default background color                   [APIs tabset]

=======================================
## Visual hosting
#### APIs for Visual hosting

> #### Composition-based rendering                  [APIs tabset]
> #### Output                                       [APIs tabset]
> #### Input                                        [APIs tabset]
> #### Accessibility                                [APIs tabset]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
###### Composition-based rendering                  [APIs tabset]
###### Output                                       [APIs tabset]
###### Input                                        [APIs tabset]
###### Accessibility                                [APIs tabset]
```

Reviewer: demoted API headings to h6, incl in outline

=======================================
## See also

Overview of APIs: https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/overview-features-apis
-->

There are three options for hosting the Microsoft Edge WebView2 control in your app:

> * Windowed hosting.
> * Window to Visual hosting.
> * Visual hosting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The Windowed hosting mode.
* The Window to Visual hosting mode.
* The Visual hosting mode.
```
@johna-ms re: term'y, capz'n

Reviewer: i'm going to make this change to press this point and send for review b/c "mode" is heavily used in article

* [Visual hosting: For more granular control over layout](#visual-hosting-for-more-granular-control-over-layout).

Details are below.

You don't need to read this article if you use Windowed hosting in most scenarios.  Windowed hosting is a good starting point for most apps.  Read this article:
* If you are using Windowed hosting in uncommon scenarios and are experiencing persistent issues with DPI and scaling.  In that case, consider Window to Visual hosting.
* If you want to provide a more custom user experience (UX) and want to use Visual hosting.

The different approaches for hosting the WebView2 control in your app are similar in functionality, but they suit different needs depending on the app requirements, as follows:

| Approach | Description | Optimized for |
|---|---|---|
| Windowed hosting | The WebView2 control takes input from the operating system (OS).  The OS sends the input to the WebView2. | Displaying web content quickly and easily, without having to include features for inputs, outputs, and accessibility. |

> | Window to Visual hosting | A combination of Windowed and Visual hosting. Similar to Windowed hosting except that WebView2 content is output to a visual that is hosted in a window rather having content output to the window directly. | A developer experience nearly identical to Windowed hosting, but with improved DPI/scaling handling and the caveat that pen input and handwriting is unsupported. |

Reviewer: closing.  entered hidden todo comment.  result:
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/bb23b99d-a27a-4fc4-95e5-a4c19a27d3a9)

i could keep present Open (w/o causing Outdated), but doing this for consistent process of handling Comments & preventing Outdated.

The supported API lists are linked to in the sections below:
* [APIs for Windowed hosting](#apis-for-windowed-hosting)
* [APIs for Window to Visual hosting](#apis-for-window-to-visual-hosting)
* [APIs for Visual hosting](#apis-for-visual-hosting)

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Windowed hosting: For displaying content quickly and easily

_Windowed hosting_ means that in your app, WebView2 content is hosted directly in a window; that is, an HWND. The WebView2 HWND inherits many default properties from the operating system (OS).  The WebView2 control takes input from the OS, and the OS sends the input to the WebView2 control.  You can have multiple HWNDs in your app that will each be used as a WebView component to access web content.

The benefit of this is that some of the Input/Output commands are handled for you by the OS or by the framework. However, you will still need to handle some aspects of window management.

For general information about Window management and `HWND` functionality, see [About Windows](/windows/win32/winmsg/about-windows).

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Advantages

> * Windowed hosting allows for a solution that quickly displays web content without having to include features for inputs, outputs, and accessibility.

Reviewer: copypasted

> * Zooming and rasterization scales (such as menus and context menus) automatically scale to the app's parent `HWND`.  Windowed hosting also handles how the WebView control manages being focused and tabbing in/out of itself when it reaches the final element.

Author: nit: can this be split into different list items?

Reviewer: Nic's comment breaks this list item into two items and improves wording.  Closing present.

> * Zooming and rasterization scales (such as menus and context menus) automatically scale to the app's parent `HWND`.  Windowed hosting also handles how the WebView control manages being focused and tabbing in/out of itself when it reaches the final element.

Reviewer: i might strike "also", that word works against modular writing, in which each section or sentence or list item should read ok standalone.  

the word "also" is used in excessively linear writing, where each sentence/section assumes & requires having read previous sentences/sections.  sentence can't be comprehended standalone - more complicated, less granular/modular.

@champnic

> * Zooming and rasterization scales (such as menus and context menus) automatically scale to the app's parent `HWND`.  Windowed hosting also handles how the WebView control manages being focused and tabbing in/out of itself when it reaches the final element.

Reviewer: result:
```
* Owned and child windows (such as menus and 
context menus) automatically scale to match the 
app's parent `HWND` scaling.

* Windowed hosting handles how the WebView control 
manages being focused and tabbing in or out of itself 
when pressing **Tab** reaches the final element.
```

> * The app handles keyboard accelerators and keyboard shortcuts when focus is on the WebView. For example, pressing **Ctrl+C** in a WebView will be interpreted as trying to copy content in the WebView, and not pressing **Ctrl** and **C** separately.

Reviewer: added '2' 3x.  Nic's question is for John, so keeping Conversation open - but, I might Close & create fresh Comment b/c this will become Outdated - hard to work with - after i push commit.

> * The app handles keyboard accelerators and keyboard shortcuts when focus is on the WebView. For example, pressing **Ctrl+C** in a WebView will be interpreted as trying to copy content in the WebView, and not pressing **Ctrl** and **C** separately.

Reviewer: Closing.  Entered hidden todo comment: 
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6f2cd404-9c83-42c6-b2f7-455e0418e33d)

* You don't have to manage the various composition-based rendering controls (such as Inputs, Outputs, and Accessibility controls) if you don't want to.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Disadvantages

Windowed hosting mode can run into DPI issues in some scenarios, such as sharing a user data folder across different applications.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### APIs for Windowed hosting

For a list of APIs that can be used when configuring WebView2 for Windowed hosting (or for Window to Visual hosting), see [Rendering WebView2 in non-framework apps](./overview-features-apis.md#rendering-webview2-in-non-framework-apps) in _Overview of WebView2 features and APIs_.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Window to Visual hosting: For a similar experience as Windowed hosting, with added benefits and tradeoff

> _Window-to-Visual hosting_ means that the WebView2 content is output to a visual that is hosted in an HWND, rather than outputting content to a window directly or to a visual directly. By hosting content in an HWND, Window to Visual hosting mode enjoys the same ease of adoption benefits as Windowed mode, but by actually displaying content using a visual, it avoids some DPI issues that can result when using Windowed mode.

Reviewer: added "and input"

Window to Visual hosting does not require use of the Visual hosting APIs.

> To enable Window to Visual hosting, the environment variable `COREWEBVIEW2_FORCED_HOSTING_MODE` must be set to the value `COREWEBVIEW2_HOSTING_MODE_WINDOW_TO_VISUAL`.

Reviewer: appended

In Window-to-Visual hosting and Visual hosting, a _visual_ is a basic graphical unit that can be used to compose graphical experiences on Windows. The Windows graphics APIs that expose this functionality and are relevant to WebView2 are `DirectComposition` and `Windows.UI.Composition`. The "visual" in "Visual hosting" can be any one of `IDCompositionVisual`, `IDCompositionTarget`, or `Windows.UI.Composition.Visual`, which are visuals that are exposed through the `DirectComposition` and `Windows.UI.Composition` APIs.  (Window to Visual hosting uses `IDCompositionVisual` specifically.)  See:
* [Basic concepts](/windows/win32/directcomp/basic-concepts) in the Windows App Development > DirectComposition docs.
* [Composition visual](/windows/uwp/composition/composition-visual-tree) in the Windows App Development > UWP docs.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Advantages

* Different apps that share a WebView2 user data folder can have different DPI awareness.

* Different apps that share a WebView2 user data folder can have different integrity levels.

> * Different apps that share a WebView2 user data folder will no longer be able to cause each other to hang.

Reviewer: used contraction - clearer here & per corp style.
```
* Different apps that share a WebView2 user data folder won't potentially cause each other to hang.
```

> * Changing monitor scale when hosting a WebView2 in a VSTO Add-in no longer sporadically hang the application.  See [VSTO Add-ins](/visualstudio/vsto/office-solutions-development-overview-vsto#vsto-add-ins) in _Office solutions development overview (VSTO)_.

Reviewer: used contraction.  
result:
in a VSTO Add-in doesn't sporadically hang the

otential better construction implied by orig wording "no longer":
* Prevents hanging the app when changing monitor scale when hosting a WebView2 in a VSTO Add-in.
@johna-ms @champnic 
i might keep present comment open, push commit, create fresh Suggestion comment w/ that revision, then Close present.

> * Changing monitor scale when hosting a WebView2 in a VSTO Add-in no longer sporadically hang the application.  See [VSTO Add-ins](/visualstudio/vsto/office-solutions-development-overview-vsto#vsto-add-ins) in _Office solutions development overview (VSTO)_.

Reviewer: Closing.  result:
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/96657036-8698-473a-96cf-5ccc9bc4a2e2)
@champnic

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Disadvantages

> Enabling Window to Visual hosting mode removes support for pen input and handwriting.

Reviewer: might keep open, push commit, enter fresh cmt asking for review at pen, close present.

> Enabling Window to Visual hosting mode removes support for pen input and handwriting.

Reviewer: included hidden todo cmt:
```
Enabling Window to Visual hosting mode removes support for Windows 
Shell Handwriting (pen input)<!-- todo: strike "(pen input)"?  do 
same in overview table --> within the WebView2.
```

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### APIs for Window to Visual hosting

For a list of APIs that can be used when configuring WebView2 Window to Visual hosting (or for Windowed hosting), see [Rendering WebView2 in non-framework apps](./overview-features-apis.md#rendering-webview2-in-non-framework-apps) in _Overview of WebView2 features and APIs_.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Visual hosting: For more granular control over layout

> When using _Visual hosting_, your host app takes spatial input (such as mouse or touch input) from the user.  Your app sends this input to the WebView2 control.

Reviewer: copypasted

> In Visual hosting, content is embedded to a given location on the application. This location must handle how content will scale and behave in an app when the user interacts with the application.  In addition to the window management described for Windowed hosting, Visual hosting will need the app to manage the composition-based rendering, when it receives any user interactions.  For more information about Visual hosting, see [Using the Visual layer in desktop apps](/windows/apps/desktop/modernize/visual-layer-in-desktop-apps).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Visual hosting, content is embedded at a given location in the application. This location must handle how content will scale and behave when the user interacts with the application.  In addition to the window management described for Windowed hosting, Visual hosting requires the app to manage the composition-based rendering when it receives any user interactions.  For more information about Visual hosting, see [Using the Visual layer in desktop apps](/windows/apps/desktop/modernize/visual-layer-in-desktop-apps).
```

Reviewer 2: This section is a bit confusing to me. 

"This location must handle how content will scale and behave in an app when the user interacts with the application." - What content is this referring to, the WebView2 content? What does it mean to scale when the user interacts with the application (like a gesture)?

"the app to manage the composition-based rendering when it receives any user interactions." - What does it mean to "manage the ... rendering"? Which user interactions would cause this, or what are the scenarios?

Reviewer: Closing - safe to close this, b/c entered hidden todo comments (local VS Code, not committed/pushed yet).  prevents "Outdated", confusing Comments.  after push, will create fresh Comment at "todo".

@johna-ms @champnic re: process to handle Comments and not have Outdated comments after push commit that modifies line.  "Outdated" comments are hard to work w/ - misrepresentative surrounding Markdown.

> If your WebView2 app uses Visual hosting, inputs are routed to the app's `HWND` and must be configured to send the spatial input (such as mouse, touch, or pen) based on positions, _not_ based on what currently has focus, such as a keyboard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your WebView2 app uses Visual hosting, spatial inputs (such as mouse, touch, or pen) are sent to the app's `HWND`, and not to WebView2 directly. The app should forward this spatial input to the WebView2 if the position of the input is over the WebView2, _not_ based on what currently has focus.
```

Reviewer: copypasted but used:
are sent to the app's `HWND`, not sent directly to the WebView2.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Advantages and disadvantages

Visual hosting allows for (and requires) more granular control of layout.  When using this approach, the app needs specific handling of window management and rendering APIs.

> For example, with Visual hosting, when the user resizes the window, you must define how the WebView control scales in relation to the whole webpage, such as making the WebView scale twice as much as the app.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, when the user resizes the window, you must define how the WebView2 control scales in relation to the whole webpage, such as making the WebView2 scale twice as much as the app.
```

Reviewer 2: Why would resizing require scaling the WebView2? What does "whole webpage" mean here? And if scaling is required, why is the WebView2 scaling twice as much?

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### APIs for Visual hosting

For a list of APIs that can be used when configuring WebView2 in a Visual hosting environment, see [Rendering WebView2 using Composition](./overview-features-apis.md#rendering-webview2-using-composition) in _Overview of WebView2 features and APIs_.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Compatibility and constraints

> Key compatibility limitations include the operating system and rendering in framework and non-framework apps.

Reviewer 2: What are the constraints of rendering in framework and non-framework apps here? I see "OS" has a section below, but this doesn't seem to get explained.

Reviewer: Closing.  entered hidden todo:
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4e34fcff-25fa-45a9-987f-e50b2971a675)

ms.subservice: webview
ms.date: 09/23/2024
---
# Windowed vs. Visual hosting of WebView2

There are three options for hosting the Microsoft Edge WebView2 control in your app:
* The Windowed hosting mode.
* The Window to Visual hosting mode.
* The Visual hosting mode.

You don't need to read this article if you use Windowed hosting in most scenarios.  Windowed hosting is a good starting point for most apps.  Read this article:
* If you are using Windowed hosting in uncommon scenarios and are experiencing persistent issues with DPI and scaling.  In this case, consider Window to Visual hosting.
* If you want to provide a more custom user experience (UX).  In this case, consider Visual hosting.

The different approaches for hosting the WebView2 control in your app are similar in functionality, but they suit different needs depending on the app requirements, as follows:

| Approach | Description | Optimized for |
|---|---|---|
| Windowed hosting | The WebView2 control takes input from the operating system (OS).  The OS sends the input to the WebView2. | Displaying web content quickly and easily, without having to include features for inputs, outputs, and accessibility. |

> | Window to Visual hosting | A combination of Windowed and Visual hosting. Similar to Windowed hosting except that WebView2 content is output to a visual that is hosted in a window rather having content output to the window directly. | A developer experience nearly identical to Windowed hosting, but with improved DPI/scaling handling and the caveat that the Windows Shell Handwriting experience is unsupported. |

Reviewer: Windows Shell Handwriting: link to these webpages?
https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/win32/input_ink/input-ink-portal
https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/win32/api/shellhandwriting/
 
Search for articles at LMC:
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/search/?terms=Shell%20Handwriting

* [Basic concepts](/windows/win32/directcomp/basic-concepts) in the Windows App Development > DirectComposition docs.
* [Composition visual](/windows/uwp/composition/composition-visual-tree) in the Windows App Development > UWP docs.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Advantages

* Different apps that share a WebView2 user data folder can have different DPI awareness.

* Different apps that share a WebView2 user data folder can have different integrity levels.

* Different apps that share a WebView2 user data folder won't potentially cause each other to hang.

* When hosting a WebView2 in a VSTO Add-in, changing monitor scale won't potentially cause the app to hang. See [VSTO Add-ins](/visualstudio/vsto/office-solutions-development-overview-vsto#vsto-add-ins) in _Office solutions development overview (VSTO)_.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Disadvantages

> Enabling Window to Visual hosting mode removes support for Windows Shell Handwriting within the WebView2.

Reviewer: Windows Shell Handwriting: link to these webpages?
https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/win32/input_ink/input-ink-portal
https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/win32/api/shellhandwriting/
 
Search for articles at LMC:
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/search/?terms=Shell%20Handwriting

Reviewer: I linked to the two handwriting.h/Ink articles.

rendered section for review:
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/windowed-vs-visual-hosting?branch=pr-en-us-3271#disadvantages-1
@johna-ms

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### APIs for Window to Visual hosting

For a list of APIs that can be used when configuring WebView2 Window to Visual hosting (or for Windowed hosting), see [Rendering WebView2 in non-framework apps](./overview-features-apis.md#rendering-webview2-in-non-framework-apps) in _Overview of WebView2 features and APIs_.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Visual hosting: For more granular control over layout

When using _Visual hosting_, your host app receives spatial input (such as mouse or touch input) from the user, and forwards this input to the WebView2 control.

> In Visual hosting, WebView2 content is embedded at a given location in the application. This location must handle how content will scale and behave when the user interacts with the application.<!-- todo: What content is this referring to, the WebView2 content?  What does it mean to scale when the user interacts with the application - such as a gesture? --> In addition to the window management described for Windowed hosting, Visual hosting requires the app to manage the composition-based rendering when it receives any user interactions.<!-- todo: What does it mean to "manage the ... rendering"? Which user interactions would cause this, or what are the scenarios? -->

Reviewer: re: first sentence:
What content is this referring to, the WebView2 content?
What does it mean to scale when the user interacts with the application - such as a gesture?

Reviewer: added headings, added Framework constraints section, structured the section

> In Visual hosting, WebView2 content is embedded at a given location in the application. This location must handle how content will scale and behave when the user interacts with the application.<!-- todo: What content is this referring to, the WebView2 content?  What does it mean to scale when the user interacts with the application - such as a gesture? --> In addition to the window management described for Windowed hosting, Visual hosting requires the app to manage the composition-based rendering when it receives any user interactions.<!-- todo: What does it mean to "manage the ... rendering"? Which user interactions would cause this, or what are the scenarios? -->

Reviewer: re: second sentence:
What does it mean to "manage the ... rendering"?
Which user interactions would cause this, or what are the scenarios?

Reviewer: rewrote, clarified section, added Framework constraints section

See also:
* [Using the Visual layer in desktop apps](/windows/apps/desktop/modernize/visual-layer-in-desktop-apps) in Windows > App development docs.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Advantages and disadvantages

Visual hosting allows for (and requires) more granular control of layout.  When using this approach, the app needs specific handling of window management and rendering APIs.

For example, when the user resizes the window, you must define how the WebView2 control scales in relation to the whole webpage, such as making the WebView2 scale twice as much as the app.
<!-- todo:
why would resizing require scaling the WebView2?
what does "whole webpage" mean here?
if scaling is required, why is the WebView2 scaling twice as much?
-->

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### APIs for Visual hosting

For a list of APIs that can be used when configuring WebView2 in a Visual hosting environment, see [Rendering WebView2 using Composition](./overview-features-apis.md#rendering-webview2-using-composition) in _Overview of WebView2 features and APIs_.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Compatibility and constraints

> Key compatibility limitations include the operating system and rendering in framework and non-framework apps. <!-- todo: what are the constraints about rendering, in framework and non-framework apps? -->

Reviewer: what are the constraints about rendering, in framework and non-framework apps?

Reviewer: added Framework constraints section, structured this h2 section

* [Visual hosting: For more granular control over layout](#visual-hosting-for-more-granular-control-over-layout).

You don't need to read this article if you use Windowed hosting in most scenarios.  Windowed hosting is a good starting point for most apps.  Read this article:
* If you are using Windowed hosting in uncommon scenarios and are experiencing persistent issues with DPI and scaling.  In that case, consider Window to Visual hosting.
* If you want to provide a more custom user experience (UX) and want to use Visual hosting.

The different approaches for hosting the WebView2 control in your app are similar in functionality, but they suit different needs depending on the app requirements, as follows:

| Approach | Description | Optimized for |
|---|---|---|
| Windowed hosting | The WebView2 control takes input from the operating system (OS).  The OS sends the input to the WebView2. | Displaying web content quickly and easily, without having to include features for inputs, outputs, and accessibility. |

> | Window to Visual hosting | A combination of Windowed and Visual hosting. Similar to Windowed hosting except that WebView2 content is output to a visual that is hosted in a window rather having content output to the window directly. | A developer experience nearly identical to Windowed hosting, but with improved DPI/scaling handling and the caveat that pen input and handwriting is unsupported. |

Reviewer: re: pen:
* change to "Windows Shell Handwriting (pen input)"?
* probably pen input is generally supported, but the "Shell Handwriting" experience (internal: Abydos) is not.
* were there other pen input scenarios that might be unsupported?
* apply same wording at "Shell Handwriting" below.

Author: updated this to be Windows Shell Handwriting

The benefit of this is that some of the Input/Output commands are handled for you by the OS or by the framework. However, you will still need to handle some aspects of window management.

For general information about Window management and `HWND` functionality, see [About Windows](/windows/win32/winmsg/about-windows).

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Advantages

* Windowed hosting allows for a solution that quickly displays web content without having to implement functionality for inputs, outputs, and accessibility.

* Owned and child windows (such as menus and context menus) automatically scale to match the app's parent `HWND` scaling.

* Windowed hosting handles how the WebView2 control manages being focused and tabbing in or out of itself when pressing **Tab** reaches the final element.

> * The app handles keyboard accelerators and keyboard shortcuts when focus is on the WebView2. For example, pressing **Ctrl+C** in a WebView2 will be interpreted as trying to copy content in the WebView2, not interpreted as pressing **Ctrl** and **C** separately.<!-- todo: what is this item trying to convey?  handling keyboard accelerators is the same across all hosting modes, right? -->

Reviewer: "Ctrl+C" - 
what is this list item trying to convey? 
handling keyboard accelerators is the same across all hosting modes, right?

Author: Yeah now that you mention it. This can probably be removed. I guess this may have been a benefit of WebView2 in general rather than a benefit of a particular hosting mode.

Reviewer: removed list item

In Window-to-Visual hosting and Visual hosting, a _visual_ is a basic graphical unit that can be used to compose graphical experiences on Windows. The Windows graphics APIs that expose this functionality and are relevant to WebView2 are `DirectComposition` and `Windows.UI.Composition`. The "visual" in "Visual hosting" can be any one of `IDCompositionVisual`, `IDCompositionTarget`, or `Windows.UI.Composition.Visual`, which are visuals that are exposed through the `DirectComposition` and `Windows.UI.Composition` APIs.  (Window to Visual hosting uses `IDCompositionVisual` specifically.)  See:
* [Basic concepts](/windows/win32/directcomp/basic-concepts) in the Windows App Development > DirectComposition docs.
* [Composition visual](/windows/uwp/composition/composition-visual-tree) in the Windows App Development > UWP docs.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Advantages

* Different apps that share a WebView2 user data folder can have different DPI awareness.

* Different apps that share a WebView2 user data folder can have different integrity levels.

* Different apps that share a WebView2 user data folder won't potentially cause each other to hang.

> * Changing monitor scale when hosting a WebView2 in a VSTO Add-in doesn't sporadically hang the application.  See [VSTO Add-ins](/visualstudio/vsto/office-solutions-development-overview-vsto#vsto-add-ins) in _Office solutions development overview (VSTO)_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Prevents sporadically hanging the app when changing monitor scale, when hosting a WebView2 in a VSTO Add-in.  See [VSTO Add-ins](/visualstudio/vsto/office-solutions-development-overview-vsto#vsto-add-ins) in _Office solutions development overview (VSTO)_.
```
alts:
* Changing monitor scale when hosting a WebView2 in a VSTO Add-in doesn't sporadically hang the application.
* Prevents sporadically hanging the app when changing monitor scale, when hosting a WebView2 in a VSTO Add-in.
* When hosting a WebView2 in a VSTO Add-in, changing monitor scale won't potentially cause the app to sporadically hang.
* Changing monitor scale won't potentially cause the app to sporadically hang, when hosting a WebView2 in a VSTO Add-in.

& consider wording in previous item: "won't potentially cause each other to hang."

Author: thanks for the suggestions. I picked one

Reviewer: result:
When hosting a WebView2 in a VSTO Add-in, changing monitor scale won't potentially cause the app to hang.

https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/windowed-vs-visual-hosting?branch=pr-en-us-3271#advantages-1

<!-- todo: alts:
* Prevents sporadically hanging the app when changing monitor scale, when hosting a WebView2 in a VSTO Add-in.  See [Foo].
* When hosting a WebView2 in a VSTO Add-in, changing monitor scale won't potentially cause the app to sporadically hang.  See [Foo].
* Changing monitor scale won't potentially cause the app to sporadically hang, when hosting a WebView2 in a VSTO Add-in.  See [Foo].
-->

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Disadvantages

> Enabling Window to Visual hosting mode removes support for Windows Shell Handwriting (pen input)<!-- todo: strike "(pen input)"?  do same in overview table --> within the WebView2.

Reviewer: pen - use same wording as overview table, per [Comment](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer/pull/3271/files#r1773436016)

Author: updated.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### APIs for Window to Visual hosting

For a list of APIs that can be used when configuring WebView2 Window to Visual hosting (or for Windowed hosting), see [Rendering WebView2 in non-framework apps](./overview-features-apis.md#rendering-webview2-in-non-framework-apps) in _Overview of WebView2 features and APIs_.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Visual hosting: For more granular control over layout

When using _Visual hosting_, your host app receives spatial input (such as mouse or touch input) from the user, and forwards this input to the WebView2 control.

> In Visual hosting, content is embedded at a given location in the application. This location must handle how content will scale and behave when the user interacts with the application.<!-- todo: What content is this referring to, the WebView2 content?  What does it mean to scale when the user interacts with the application - such as a gesture? --> In addition to the window management described for Windowed hosting, Visual hosting requires the app to manage the composition-based rendering when it receives any user interactions.<!-- todo: What does it mean to "manage the ... rendering"? Which user interactions would cause this, or what are the scenarios? -->

Reviewer: re: first sentence: What content is this referring to, the WebView2 content? What does it mean to scale when the user interacts with the application - such as a gesture?

Reviewer: Closing this "Outdated" comment.  
[Fresh Comment](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer/pull/3271/files#r1777394345)

> In Visual hosting, content is embedded at a given location in the application. This location must handle how content will scale and behave when the user interacts with the application.<!-- todo: What content is this referring to, the WebView2 content?  What does it mean to scale when the user interacts with the application - such as a gesture? --> In addition to the window management described for Windowed hosting, Visual hosting requires the app to manage the composition-based rendering when it receives any user interactions.<!-- todo: What does it mean to "manage the ... rendering"? Which user interactions would cause this, or what are the scenarios? -->

Reviewer: re: second sentence: 
What does it mean to "manage the ... rendering"? 
Which user interactions would cause this, or what are the scenarios?

Reviewer: Closing this "Outdated" comment.  
[Fresh Comment](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer/pull/3271/files#r1777394580)

If your WebView2 app uses Visual hosting, inputs are routed to the app's `HWND` and must be configured to send the spatial input (such as mouse, touch, or pen) based on positions, _not_ based on what currently has focus, such as a keyboard.

If your WebView2 app uses Visual hosting, spatial inputs (such as mouse, touch, or pen) are sent to the app's `HWND`, not sent directly to the WebView2. The app should forward this spatial input to the WebView2 if the position of the input is over the WebView2, _not_ based on what currently has focus.

See also:
* [Using the Visual layer in desktop apps](/windows/apps/desktop/modernize/visual-layer-in-desktop-apps) in Windows > App development docs.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Advantages and disadvantages

Visual hosting allows for (and requires) more granular control of layout.  When using this approach, the app needs specific handling of window management and rendering APIs.

> For example, when the user resizes the window, you must define how the WebView2 control scales in relation to the whole webpage, such as making the WebView2 scale twice as much as the app.

Reviewer: why would resizing require scaling the WebView2?
what does "whole webpage" mean here?
if scaling is required, why is the WebView2 scaling twice as much?

Reviewer: explained scaling.
the latest, expanded, explicit explanation of scaling is immediately comprehensible to all users and does not assume and require the reader to already be immediately, thoroughly familiar with scaling.  latest explanation explicitly lays out the explanation, for all maintainers, reviewers, and readers.
@champnic @johna-ms

<!-- todo:
why would resizing require scaling the WebView2?
what does "whole webpage" mean here?
if scaling is required, why is the WebView2 scaling twice as much?
-->

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### APIs for Visual hosting

For a list of APIs that can be used when configuring WebView2 in a Visual hosting environment, see [Rendering WebView2 using Composition](./overview-features-apis.md#rendering-webview2-using-composition) in _Overview of WebView2 features and APIs_.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Compatibility and constraints

> Key compatibility limitations include the operating system and rendering in framework and non-framework apps.<!-- todo: what are the constraints about rendering, in framework and non-framework apps? -->

Reviewer: what are the constraints about rendering, in framework and non-framework apps?

Reviewer: Closing this "Outdated" comment.  
[Fresh Comment](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer/pull/3271/files#r1777399077)

---
title: Windowed vs. Visual hosting of WebView2
description: Deciding whether to have your app use Windowed, Window to Visual, or Visual hosting of the WebView2 control.  Hosting WebView2 in Windowed or Visual environments.
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.service: microsoft-edge
ms.subservice: webview

> ms.date: 09/23/2024

Author: nit: should this date be updated?

* If you are using Windowed hosting in uncommon scenarios and are experiencing persistent issues with DPI and scaling.  In this case, consider Window to Visual hosting.
* If you want to provide a more custom user experience (UX).  In this case, consider Visual hosting.

The different approaches for hosting the WebView2 control in your app are similar in functionality, but they suit different needs depending on the app requirements, as follows:

| Approach | Description | Optimized for |
|---|---|---|
| Windowed hosting | The WebView2 control takes input from the operating system (OS).  The OS sends the input to the WebView2. | Displaying web content quickly and easily, without having to include features for inputs, outputs, and accessibility. |
| Window to Visual hosting | A combination of Windowed and Visual hosting. Similar to Windowed hosting except that WebView2 content is output to a Visual that is hosted in a window rather having content output to the window directly. | A developer experience nearly identical to Windowed hosting, but with improved DPI/scaling handling and the caveat that the Windows Shell Handwriting experience is unsupported. |

> | Visual hosting | Your host app takes spatial input (such as mouse or touch input) from the user.  Your app sends this input to the WebView2 control. | More granular control over layout.  For example, you can control the positioning of the WebView2 control in the page.  The app needs to do specific handling of window management and rendering APIs. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Visual hosting | Your host app takes spatial input (such as mouse or touch input) from the user.  Your app sends this input to the WebView2 control. | More granular control over control composition.   The app needs to do specific handling of window management and rendering APIs. |
```

Reviewer: replaced row

In Window-to-Visual hosting and Visual hosting, a _Visual_ is a basic graphical unit that can be used to compose graphical experiences on Windows. The Windows graphics APIs that expose this functionality and are relevant to WebView2 are `DirectComposition` and `Windows.UI.Composition`. The "Visual" in "Visual hosting" can be any one of `IDCompositionVisual`, `IDCompositionTarget`, or `Windows.UI.Composition.Visual`, which are Visuals that are exposed through the `DirectComposition` and `Windows.UI.Composition` APIs.  (Window to Visual hosting uses `IDCompositionVisual` specifically.)  See:
* [Basic concepts](/windows/win32/directcomp/basic-concepts) in the Windows App Development > DirectComposition docs.
* [Composition visual](/windows/uwp/composition/composition-visual-tree) in the Windows App Development > UWP docs.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Advantages

* Different apps that share a WebView2 user data folder can have different DPI awareness.

* Different apps that share a WebView2 user data folder can have different integrity levels.

> * Different apps that share a WebView2 user data folder won't potentially cause each other to hang.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Different apps that share a WebView2 user data folder won't potentially cause each other to hang due to attached window input queues.
```

Reviewer: appended

See also:
* [Ink input](/windows/win32/input_ink/input-ink-portal) - Windows App Development > User Interaction.
* [shellhandwriting.h header](/windows/win32/api/shellhandwriting/) - Win32 API.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### APIs for Window to Visual hosting

For a list of APIs that can be used when configuring WebView2 Window to Visual hosting (or for Windowed hosting), see [Rendering WebView2 in non-framework apps](./overview-features-apis.md#rendering-webview2-in-non-framework-apps) in _Overview of WebView2 features and APIs_.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Visual hosting: For more granular control over layout

When using _Visual hosting_, your host app receives spatial input (such as mouse or touch input) from the user, and forwards this input to the WebView2 control.  Visual hosting requires the app to do the same window management as Windowed hosting, but has additional window management requirements regarding:
* Scaling the contents.
* Routing spatial inputs (such as mouse, touch, or pen).

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Requirements for scaling the contents

> Per composition-based rendering, a WebView2 control is part of a Visual tree, so by default, it's rendered at the scale of its ancestor Visual.  For example, if a WebView2's ancestor Visual is scaled 2x, then the WebView2's contents are also rendered at 2x scale.  But because the WebView2 is not scaling its own contents, they're blurry.

Author: Reading this again - I'm a little wary of the wording. I had it worded more ambiguously before because the WebView2 will be affected by the scales of all of its ancestor visuals. This wording implies only 1 visual will affect the WebView2. But for instance, if the WebView2's parent visual is zoomed 2x and that visual's parent is zoomed 2x, then the WebView2 would be zoomed 4x. WinComp/Dcomp developers should know this which is why I wasn't this explicit in my explanation.

Reviewer: result:
```
Per composition-based rendering, a WebView2 control is part of a Visual tree, so by default, it's rendered at a scale that's based on the scales of all of its ancestor Visuals.  For example, if a WebView2's ancestor Visual is scaled (zoomed) 2x, then the WebView2's contents are also rendered at 2x scale.  If the WebView2's parent Visual is scaled 2x and that Visual's parent is also scaled 2x, then the WebView2 is scaled 4x.  But because the WebView2 is not scaling its own contents, they're blurry.
```

> To resolve this, the app can disable default Visual scaling on the WebView2, and instead use the Rasterization Scale APIs to apply the intended Visual scaling.  This results in the WebView2's contents rendering at the correct scale.

Author: Upon reconsideration I think 'undo' would be better than 'disable'

Reviewer: result:
```
To resolve this, the app can undo the default Visual scaling of the WebView2, 
and instead use the Rasterization Scale APIs to apply the intended Visual scaling.
```

> To resolve this, the app can undo the default Visual scaling of the WebView2, and instead use the Rasterization Scale APIs to apply the intended Visual scaling.  This results in the WebView2's contents rendering at the correct scale.

Reviewer 2: Should include link to Rasterization Scale APIs

Reviewer: ```
See [Rasterization scale](./overview-features-apis.md#rasterization-scale) in _Overview 
of WebView2 features and APIs_.
```

ms.topic: conceptual
ms.service: microsoft-edge
ms.subservice: webview
ms.date: 09/18/2024
---
# Windowed vs. visual hosting of WebView2

> <!-- outline Sep 28, 2024:

Reviewer: inspect outline re: the many headings that are APIs Ref docs tabsets - maybe add "(APIs)" to those headings.  
Inspect the structure of the article -- seems like a ton of APIs sections are placed unpredictably, and need to be mentioned or introduced as API Ref sections.

Reviewer: solution: added same-level "APIs" headings (in article body & hidden outline):
```
=======================================
## Windowed hosting and Window to Visual hosting
#### Benefits of Windowed hosting
#### Benefits of Window to Visual hosting
#### APIs for Windowed hosting and Window to Visual hosting
#### Window management                            [APIs tabset]
...

=======================================
## Visual hosting
#### APIs for Visual hosting
#### Composition-based rendering                  [APIs tabset]
...
```

Reviewer: updated the 1st anchor link reported by build report:
```
These approaches have different requirements, constraints, and benefits.  Windowed hosting is simpler to implement than Visual hosting.  Visual hosting requires all the API calls that Windowed hosting requires, and Visual hosting has additional requirements for it to render properly.  The API calls are listed in the following sections below:
* [Windowed hosting and Window to Visual hosting](#windowed-hosting-and-window-to-visual-hosting)
* [Visual hosting](#visual-hosting)
```

---
# Windowed vs. visual hosting of WebView2

> There are three options for hosting the Microsoft Edge WebView2 control in your app: windowed hosting, window to visual hosting, and visual hosting.

Reviewer: consider list format - coordinate with greatly condensed equivalent of table, summarized to just the essence (1 phrase each).  eg:
* foo - does x.
* bar - does x.
* baz - does x.

Author: I can list the 3 hosting modes, but I like the follow up paragraph giving a readers an opt-out in case this info isn't necessary for them (assuming they're trying to start out quickly). That feels awkward with the bullet+explainer suggestion.

Reviewer: result:
```
There are three options for hosting the Microsoft Edge WebView2 control in your app:
* Windowed hosting.
* Window to Visual hosting.
* Visual hosting.
```

If you use windowed hosting, which is a good starting point for most apps, you don't need to read this article. If you want to provide a more custom user experience (UX) and want to use visual hosting, or if you are using windowed mode in specific scenarios and are experiencing persistent issues with DPI and scaling, read this article.

| Approach | Description | Optimized for |
|---|---|---|
| Windowed hosting | The WebView2 control takes input from the operating system (OS).  The OS sends the input to the WebView2. | Displaying web content quickly and easily, without having to include features for inputs, outputs, and accessibility. |

> | Window to Visual hosting | A combination of windowed and visual modes. This mode provides a developer experience basically identical to windowed mode. The only developer from the app developer perspective is the need to set the `COREWEBVIEW2_FORCED_HOSTING_MODE` environment variable to `COREWEBVIEW2_HOSTING_MODE_WINDOW_TO_VISUAL`. Like windowed mode, the OS sends input to the WebView2 and there is no need to use the visual hosting input APIs. But unlike windowed mode, the WebView2 output is displayed using a visual instead of a window as it is in visual hosting. This implementation detail allows us to prevent a number of DPI related bugs that pure windowed mode apps can run into. It is important to note that this hosting mode comes at the cost of losing pen input and handwriting support. | A developer experience nearly identical to windowed mode but with improved DPI/scaling handling and the caveat that pen input and handwriting is unsupported. |

Reviewer: will try reduce word count or add line breaks eg cut "It is important to note that"

Author: Note taken. I can reduce here and move relevant content elsewhere

Reviewer: table has been condensed

> | Window to Visual hosting | A combination of windowed and visual modes. This mode provides a developer experience basically identical to windowed mode. The only developer from the app developer perspective is the need to set the `COREWEBVIEW2_FORCED_HOSTING_MODE` environment variable to `COREWEBVIEW2_HOSTING_MODE_WINDOW_TO_VISUAL`. Like windowed mode, the OS sends input to the WebView2 and there is no need to use the visual hosting input APIs. But unlike windowed mode, the WebView2 output is displayed using a visual instead of a window as it is in visual hosting. This implementation detail allows us to prevent a number of DPI related bugs that pure windowed mode apps can run into. It is important to note that this hosting mode comes at the cost of losing pen input and handwriting support. | A developer experience nearly identical to windowed mode but with improved DPI/scaling handling and the caveat that pen input and handwriting is unsupported. |

Reviewer: rewrite/clarify "The only developer from the app developer perspective is the need to"
@johna-ms

> | Window to Visual hosting | A combination of windowed and visual modes. This mode provides a developer experience basically identical to windowed mode. The only developer from the app developer perspective is the need to set the `COREWEBVIEW2_FORCED_HOSTING_MODE` environment variable to `COREWEBVIEW2_HOSTING_MODE_WINDOW_TO_VISUAL`. Like windowed mode, the OS sends input to the WebView2 and there is no need to use the visual hosting input APIs. But unlike windowed mode, the WebView2 output is displayed using a visual instead of a window as it is in visual hosting. This implementation detail allows us to prevent a number of DPI related bugs that pure windowed mode apps can run into. It is important to note that this hosting mode comes at the cost of losing pen input and handwriting support. | A developer experience nearly identical to windowed mode but with improved DPI/scaling handling and the caveat that pen input and handwriting is unsupported. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Window to Visual hosting | A combination of windowed and visual modes. This mode provides a developer experience basically identical to windowed mode. The only difference from the app developer perspective is the need to set the `COREWEBVIEW2_FORCED_HOSTING_MODE` environment variable to `COREWEBVIEW2_HOSTING_MODE_WINDOW_TO_VISUAL`. Like windowed mode, the OS sends input to the WebView2 and there is no need to use the visual hosting input APIs. But unlike windowed mode, the WebView2 output is displayed using a visual instead of a window as it is in visual hosting. This implementation detail allows us to prevent a number of DPI related bugs that pure windowed mode apps can run into. It is important to note that this hosting mode comes at the cost of losing pen input and handwriting support. | A developer experience nearly identical to windowed mode but with improved DPI/scaling handling and the caveat that pen input and handwriting is unsupported. |
```

Author: This is a typo, yes the only difference is correct. Thank you

Reviewer: has been rewritten-away

> | Window to Visual hosting | A combination of windowed and visual modes. This mode provides a developer experience basically identical to windowed mode. The only developer from the app developer perspective is the need to set the `COREWEBVIEW2_FORCED_HOSTING_MODE` environment variable to `COREWEBVIEW2_HOSTING_MODE_WINDOW_TO_VISUAL`. Like windowed mode, the OS sends input to the WebView2 and there is no need to use the visual hosting input APIs. But unlike windowed mode, the WebView2 output is displayed using a visual instead of a window as it is in visual hosting. This implementation detail allows us to prevent a number of DPI related bugs that pure windowed mode apps can run into. It is important to note that this hosting mode comes at the cost of losing pen input and handwriting support. | A developer experience nearly identical to windowed mode but with improved DPI/scaling handling and the caveat that pen input and handwriting is unsupported. |

Reviewer: clarify "the WebView2 output is displayed using a visual instead of a window"

what's "a visual"? 
@johna-ms

Author: I will clarify language here. A "visual" is a basic graphical unit that can be used with other visuals to compose graphical experiences on Windows. There are a couple of Windows graphics APIs that expose this functionality namely dcomp and Windows::UI::Composition. The visual in visual hosting can be any one of IDCompositionVisual, IDCompositionTarget, or Windows::UI::Composition::Visual, which are visuals exposed through the aforementioned APIs. None of this is explained in the doc so I assumed it was fine to leave that abstracted away for a high level overview. Window to Visual uses the IDCompositionVisual specifically, but this is not exposed to or imo relevant to the developer experience.

Author: Actually I'm unsure how to clarify this without providing the above context. I think we could link to this article: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/directcomp/basic-concepts which is where I derive my explanation at least for dcomp, or we could leave as is with the understanding that a developer that knows what a visual in visual hosting is can assume the same for a visual in window to visual.

Reviewer: result:
```
<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Window to Visual hosting: Similar experience as Windowed hosting with added benefits and tradeoff

_Window-to-Visual hosting_ means that the WebView2 content is displayed by using a visual that is hosted in an HWND (window), rather than hosting the content in a window directly or in a visual directly.

Window-to-Visual hosting is a combination of windowed and visual modes.

A _visual_ is a basic graphical unit that can be used with other visuals to compose graphical experiences on Windows. There are a couple of Windows graphics APIs that expose this functionality: `dcomp` and `Windows::UI::Composition`. The "visual" in "Visual hosting" can be any one of `IDCompositionVisual`, `IDCompositionTarget`, or `Windows::UI::Composition::Visual`, which are visuals that are exposed through the aforementioned APIs.  (Window to Visual hosting uses `IDCompositionVisual` specifically.)  See [Basic concepts](/windows/win32/directcomp/basic-concepts) in the Windows App Development > DirectComposition docs.
```
"a visual" occurs 5x in article; an odd-sounding usage, defining is warranted

> | Window to Visual hosting | A combination of windowed and visual modes. This mode provides a developer experience basically identical to windowed mode. The only developer from the app developer perspective is the need to set the `COREWEBVIEW2_FORCED_HOSTING_MODE` environment variable to `COREWEBVIEW2_HOSTING_MODE_WINDOW_TO_VISUAL`. Like windowed mode, the OS sends input to the WebView2 and there is no need to use the visual hosting input APIs. But unlike windowed mode, the WebView2 output is displayed using a visual instead of a window as it is in visual hosting. This implementation detail allows us to prevent a number of DPI related bugs that pure windowed mode apps can run into. It is important to note that this hosting mode comes at the cost of losing pen input and handwriting support. | A developer experience nearly identical to windowed mode but with improved DPI/scaling handling and the caveat that pen input and handwriting is unsupported. |

Reviewer: rewrite "allows us" to avoid "us", per corp style

Reviewer: " us " no longer occurs

> | Window to Visual hosting | A combination of windowed and visual modes. This mode provides a developer experience basically identical to windowed mode. The only developer from the app developer perspective is the need to set the `COREWEBVIEW2_FORCED_HOSTING_MODE` environment variable to `COREWEBVIEW2_HOSTING_MODE_WINDOW_TO_VISUAL`. Like windowed mode, the OS sends input to the WebView2 and there is no need to use the visual hosting input APIs. But unlike windowed mode, the WebView2 output is displayed using a visual instead of a window as it is in visual hosting. This implementation detail allows us to prevent a number of DPI related bugs that pure windowed mode apps can run into. It is important to note that this hosting mode comes at the cost of losing pen input and handwriting support. | A developer experience nearly identical to windowed mode but with improved DPI/scaling handling and the caveat that pen input and handwriting is unsupported. |

Reviewer: the terms "windowed mode" and "visual mode" are used here for first time, w/o being introduced.  what we intro'd instead were terms:
* Windowed hosting.
* Window to Visual hosting.
* Visual hosting.

Reviewer: added earlier-intro'd term in parens

---
# Windowed vs. visual hosting of WebView2

There are three options for hosting the Microsoft Edge WebView2 control in your app:
* Windowed Hosting
* Window to Visual Hosting
* Visual Hosting

> If you use windowed hosting, which is a good starting point for most apps, you don't need to read this article. If you want to provide a more custom user experience (UX) and want to use visual hosting, or if you are using windowed mode in specific scenarios and are experiencing persistent issues with DPI and scaling, read this article.

Reviewer: the term "windowed mode" is used here w/o introduction, and is different than the intro'd term "Windowed hosting".

context includes: i'm checking consistent cap'zn of the 3 terms

Reviewer: result:
```
or if you are using windowed mode (Windowed hosting) in specific scenarios

A combination of windowed mode (Windowed hosting) and visual mode (Visual hosting).
```

There are instances where you might want to focus on displaying web content as quickly and easily as possible in your app.  Windowed hosting allows for a solution that quickly displays web content without having to include features for inputs, outputs, and accessibility.

#### Window to Visual hosting: For a similar experience to Windowed hosting with some added benefits and tradeoff

> Window-to-Visual hosting is meant to be as easy to adopt as windowed hosting. It only requires setting an environment variable to enable. It does not require use of the visual hosting APIs. It resolves certain DPI issues that can result when sharing a WebView2 user data folder across applications. It does not support pen input and handwriting. To enable it, users must set this environment variable: `COREWEBVIEW2_FORCED_HOSTING_MODE` to the value: `COREWEBVIEW2_HOSTING_MODE_WINDOW_TO_VISUAL`.

Reviewer: during Writer/Editor pass commit, i'll reduce number of "it"

Reviewer: result re: final sentence:
To enable Window to Visual hosting, your code sets the environment variable `COREWEBVIEW2_FORCED_HOSTING_MODE` to the value `COREWEBVIEW2_HOSTING_MODE_WINDOW_TO_VISUAL`.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Windowed and Window to Visual hosting

> In this hosting mode, WebView2 content is hosted directly in a window.  You can have multiple HWNDs in your app that will each be used as a WebView component to access web content.  The benefit of this is taht some of the Input/Output commands are handled for you by the OS or the framework. However, you will still need to handle some window management functionalities. Unless specified, all of the information in this section is also true for Window to Visual hosting mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Windowed hosting mode and the "Window to Visual" hosting mode, WebView2 content is hosted directly in a window.  You can have multiple HWNDs in your app that will each be used as a WebView component to access web content.  The benefit of this is that some of the Input/Output commands are handled for you by the OS or by the framework. However, you will still need to handle some window management functionality. 

The information in this section applies to both the Window hosting mode and the "Window to Visual" hosting mode, unless otherwise specified.
```
if you don't get to this change, i'll push a commit thats a writer/editor pass eg typofix

Author: So it's actually untrue that in Window to Visual hosting mode, the content is hosted directly in a window. But that is unclear from my 'all information in this section is also true...' statement. What I'm trying to say here is that the aspects of window management the user needs to handle in Windowed are the same for Window-to-Visual. So I guess I will say that

Reviewer: result:
```
## Windowed hosting and Window to Visual hosting

In the Windowed hosting mode, WebView2 content is 
hosted directly in a window.  You can have multiple 
HWNDs in your app that will each be used as a WebView 
component to access web content.  The benefit of this is 
that some of the Input/Output commands are handled for 
you by the OS or by the framework. However, you will still 
need to handle some aspects of window management.

In the Window to Visual hosting mode, content is hosted 
slightly differently, but has the same benefits and 
window-management requirements as Windowed hosting.
```

* You don't have to manage the various composition-based rendering (for example, Inputs, Outputs, and Accessibility controls) if you don't want to.

Benefits for Window to Visual hosting include:

> * Changing monitor scale when hosting a WebView2 in a VSTO add-in no longer sporadically hang the application

Reviewer: period terminating each list item
```suggestion
* Changing monitor scale when hosting a WebView2 in a VSTO add-in no longer sporadically hang the application.
```

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Operating systems

All hosting modes are supported wherever WebView2 is supported ie. Windows 10 and up and certain Windows Server versions. Windows 7, 8 and 8.1 are no longer supported. For those still on those platforms Windows 7 and Windows 8 can only do Windowed hosting, not Visual hosting.

See [Windows 7 and 8](../index.md#windows-7-and-8) in _Introduction to Microsoft Edge WebView2_.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Rendering WebView2 in framework and non-framework apps

> <!-- todo: are these tab lists introduced ok?  are they straight copy of "Overview of APIs"?  link to there instead? -->

Reviewer: are these tab lists introduced ok?  
are they a straight copy of "Overview of APIs"?   link to there instead?

rendered article section:
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/windowed-vs-visual-hosting?branch=pr-en-us-3271&tabs=dotnetcsharp#rendering-webview2-in-framework-and-non-framework-apps

Reviewer: Outdated, entered fresh Comment

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Operating systems

All hosting modes are supported wherever WebView2 is supported ie. Windows 10 and up and certain Windows Server versions. Windows 7, 8 and 8.1 are no longer supported. For those still on those platforms Windows 7 and Windows 8 can only do Windowed hosting, not Visual hosting.

See [Windows 7 and 8](../index.md#windows-7-and-8) in _Introduction to Microsoft Edge WebView2_.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Rendering WebView2 in framework and non-framework apps

> <!-- todo: is this tabset/ APIs list introduced ok?  is this section a straight copy of "Overview of APIs"?  link to there instead?  

Reviewer: is this tabset/ APIs list introduced ok? is this section a straight copy of "Overview of APIs"? link to there instead?

that link would be:
* [Rendering WebView2 in non-framework apps](./overview-features-apis.md#rendering-webview2-in-non-framework-apps) - what about "in framework"??

Present article:
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/windowed-vs-visual-hosting?branch=pr-en-us-3271&tabs=dotnetcsharp#rendering-webview2-in-framework-and-non-framework-apps
Overview APIs:
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/overview-features-apis?branch=pr-en-us-3271&tabs=dotnetcsharp#rendering-webview2-in-non-framework-apps

Reviewer: in every API section in article, linked to same/similar/equivalent section in "Overview of APIs" article.  for maintainability; we can easily compare the two sections to see if same, and why heading sometimes differs.

* You don't have to manage the various composition-based rendering (for example, Inputs, Outputs, and Accessibility controls) if you don't want to.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Benefits of Window to Visual hosting

* Different apps that share a WebView2 user data folder can have different DPI awarenesses.

* Different apps that share a WebView2 user data folder can have different integrity levels.

* Different apps that share a WebView2 user data folder will no longer be able to cause each other to hang.

* Changing monitor scale when hosting a WebView2 in a VSTO add-in no longer sporadically hang the application.

For general information regarding Window management and `HWND` functionality, see [About Windows](/windows/win32/winmsg/about-windows).

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### APIs for Windowed hosting and Window to Visual hosting

The following APIs can be used when configuring WebView2 for Windowed hosting or Window to Visual hosting.

> <!-- todo: are the below tab lists a straight copy of "Overview of APIs"?  link to there instead? -->

Reviewer: are the below tab lists a straight copy of "Overview of APIs"?  link to there instead?

rendered article section:
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/windowed-vs-visual-hosting?branch=pr-en-us-3271#apis-for-windowed-hosting-and-window-to-visual-hosting
Overview of APIs:
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/overview-features-apis?branch=pr-en-us-3271

Reviewer: Outdated, entered fresh Comment

* You don't have to manage the various composition-based rendering (for example, Inputs, Outputs, and Accessibility controls) if you don't want to.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Benefits of Window to Visual hosting

* Different apps that share a WebView2 user data folder can have different DPI awarenesses.

* Different apps that share a WebView2 user data folder can have different integrity levels.

* Different apps that share a WebView2 user data folder will no longer be able to cause each other to hang.

* Changing monitor scale when hosting a WebView2 in a VSTO add-in no longer sporadically hang the application.

For general information regarding Window management and `HWND` functionality, see [About Windows](/windows/win32/winmsg/about-windows).

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### APIs for Windowed hosting and Window to Visual hosting

The following APIs can be used when configuring WebView2 for Windowed hosting or Window to Visual hosting.

> <!-- todo: are the below tab lists a straight copy of "Overview of APIs"?  link to there instead?

Reviewer: are the below tab lists a straight copy of "Overview of APIs"? link to there instead?

Present article:
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/windowed-vs-visual-hosting?branch=pr-en-us-3271
Overview of APIs:

Window management - no equiv section?
   [Sizing, positioning, and visibility](https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/overview-features-apis?branch=pr-en-us-3271#sizing-positioning-and-visibility)
   [Zooming](https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/overview-features-apis?branch=pr-en-us-3271#zooming)
[Rasterization scale](https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/overview-features-apis?branch=pr-en-us-3271#rasterization-scale)
[Focus and tabbing](https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/overview-features-apis?branch=pr-en-us-3271#focus-and-tabbing)
[Parent window](https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/overview-features-apis?branch=pr-en-us-3271#parent-window)
[Keyboard accelerators](https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/overview-features-apis?branch=pr-en-us-3271#keyboard-accelerators)
[Default background color](https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/overview-features-apis?branch=pr-en-us-3271#default-background-color)

Reviewer: in every API section in article, linked to same/similar/equivalent section in "Overview of APIs" article.  for maintainability; we can easily compare the two sections to see if same, and why heading sometimes differs.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->

> #### Rasterization scale

Reviewer: ```suggestion
###### Rasterization scale
```

Reviewer: demoted api headings to h6, incl in outline

<!-- ---------- -->
###### Default background color

> WebView2 can specify a default background color. This can be any opaque color or transparent color. This color will be used if the webpage doesn't set a background color or sets a transparent background color.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WebView2 can specify a default background color. This can be any opaque color or transparent color. This color will be used if the webpage doesn't set a background color, or sets a transparent background color.
```

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Visual hosting

In Visual hosting, content is embedded to a given location on the application. This location must handle how content will scale and behave in an app when the user interacts with the application.  In addition to the window management described for Windowed hosting, Visual hosting will need the app to manage the composition-based rendering, when it receives any user interactions.  For more information about Visual hosting, see [Using the Visual layer in desktop apps](/windows/apps/desktop/modernize/visual-layer-in-desktop-apps).

If your WebView2 app uses Visual hosting:

* Inputs are routed to the app's `HWND` and must be configured to send the spatial input (for example, mouse, touch, and pen) based on positions, _not_ what currently has focus, such as a keyboard.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### APIs for Visual hosting

The following APIs can be used when configuring WebView2 in a Visual hosting environment:

> <!-- todo: are the below tab lists a straight copy of "Overview of APIs"?  link to there instead? -->

Reviewer: are the below tab lists a straight copy of "Overview of APIs"?  link to there instead?

https://review.learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/windowed-vs-visual-hosting?branch=pr-en-us-3271#apis-for-visual-hosting
Overview of APIs:
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/overview-features-apis?branch=pr-en-us-3271

Reviewer: added links in hidden comments but have to move them outside of comment to click them

Reviewer: Outdated, entered fresh Comment

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Visual hosting

In Visual hosting, content is embedded to a given location on the application. This location must handle how content will scale and behave in an app when the user interacts with the application.  In addition to the window management described for Windowed hosting, Visual hosting will need the app to manage the composition-based rendering, when it receives any user interactions.  For more information about Visual hosting, see [Using the Visual layer in desktop apps](/windows/apps/desktop/modernize/visual-layer-in-desktop-apps).

If your WebView2 app uses Visual hosting:

* Inputs are routed to the app's `HWND` and must be configured to send the spatial input (for example, mouse, touch, and pen) based on positions, _not_ what currently has focus, such as a keyboard.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### APIs for Visual hosting

The following APIs can be used when configuring WebView2 in a Visual hosting environment:

> <!-- todo: are the below tab lists a straight copy of "Overview of APIs"?  link to there instead?

Reviewer: are the below tab lists a straight copy of "Overview of APIs"?  link to there instead?
Those links would be:
Composition-based rendering = [Rendering WebView2 using Composition](https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/overview-features-apis?branch=pr-en-us-3271#rendering-webview2-using-composition)
Output = [Connecting to the visual tree](https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/overview-features-apis?branch=pr-en-us-3271#connecting-to-the-visual-tree)
Input = [Forwarding input](https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/overview-features-apis?branch=pr-en-us-3271#forwarding-input)
Accessibility = [Accessibility](https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/overview-features-apis?branch=pr-en-us-3271#accessibility)

Reviewer: in every API section in article, linked to same/similar/equivalent section in "Overview of APIs" article.  for maintainability; we can easily compare the two sections to see if same, and why heading sometimes differs.
